# Title

Popularity, haters, and lovers within Signed Network in Social Media

# Abstract

This work explores the general graph properties of three websites with rating relationships and their own relationship, which we refer to broadly as *like*/*dislike*. We propose to study the popularity of the users in social media and their like/dislike behavior. To do so, we define popularity as the overall amount of likes and dislike towards the user, a *hater* as someone who dislikes significantly more often, and a *lover* as someone who likes significantly more often. Based on these definitions, we set two main axes for our research. First, we study the user's popularity. Then we take a look at the behavior of the voters to spot potential lovers and haters and search for influences induced by their co-voters. 

# Research Questions

1. What is the distribution of likes/dislikes? How does it relate to the popularity of a target user? 
2. Are some users keener to always like or hate content? What are their similarities and how do they influence each other?

# Proposed dataset

We will be using the same dataset as the original paper of Leskovec et al. . The Epinion dataset will be extended to include the date at which each link was generated by using the data from http://www.trustlet.org/epinions.html


For some questions where we need specific time information, we will ignore the Slashdot dataset.

# Methods

**Data collection analysis:** download the different datasets and make them interpretable in a network representation. Then retrieve several statistics: proportion of like/dislikes coming from and going to the user.

**Popularity:** Analyze the distribution of likes/dislikes ratio going to the user. Define and retrieve popularity inside the network:
- popularity distribution for all users in the graph
- popular evolution for all users over time

**User behavior (haters/lovers):** Analyze the distribution of likes/dislikes ratio coming from the user. Define and retrieve those behave as haters/lovers:
- hater/lover behavior description (proportion and extraction of common features)
- hater/lover evolution along time

**Effect of popularity over appreciation:** figure out whether popularity can influence statistically the appreciation of other nodes. Specifically, determine the influence of haters/lovers combining with their popularity using a regression method.

**Community Effect:** Create clusters of highly connected users and analyze if their like/dislike likelihood is influenced by the community.

# Proposed timeline

**Week 1:** 
 - Data collection. 
 - Analyze and plot the popularity on the websites and the relation between like/dislike and the popularity.
 - Create an empty site with Jekyll to host the data story.
 
**Week 2:** 
 - Add the analysis and graphs of the previous week to the data story.
 - Analyze and plot the simple graphs from the second research question.
 - Create networks/clusters of users.
 - Analyze the influence of the clusters on the likelihood that users will give good/bad reviews.
 
**Week 3:** 
 - Add the analysis and graphs of the previous week to the data story.
 - Create a visualization of the clusters.
 - Add the cluster analysis and visualization to the data story.
 - Create slides/visuals for the video.
 
**Week 4:**
 - Record the video.

# Organization within the team

**Florine:** Create the video. Main writer of the data story. Peer review the code.

**Paul:** Transform the data for plotting (including cluster creation). Review of the data story.

**Matthieu:** Plot and visualize the data. Statistical analysis and conclusions on the data story. 
 
# DataStory

The data story is available here : https://floumzi.github.io/ADataStory/

